new-docs-jan-2020/registration-and-login.md, before:

[title]: - "Registration and Login for OSG Connect"
[toc]

## Registration and Login for OSG Connect

The major steps to getting started on OSG Connect are: 

* apply for an OSG Connect account
* meet with an OSG Connect staff member for an short consultation and orientation. 
* join and set your default "project"
* upload `.ssh` keys to the OSG Connect website

Each of these is detailed in the guide below. 

Once you've gone through these steps, you should be able to login to the OSG Connect
submit node.  

## Account Creation

### Sign in to or create an account

Start by creating an OSG Connect account. Visit the [OSG Connect web
site](<https://osgconnect.net/>), then select **Sign Up**.

Authentication with the user management system is using your 
institutional credentials. For example, you can authenticate with your
own university account.

The default first step is to sign in using an InCommon ID through the CILogon
service. This allows you to enroll using your existing campus identifier and
credentials, provided that your home institution is a member of the InCommon
Federation.

Click on **Proceed** to begin this process. You'll be directed to a discovery
service which asks you what your home institution is. (If you've used CILogon
before it may already know your home institution and skip this step.) Locate
your institution in the list, or type its name to find matches. If your
institution does not appear, it may not be an InCommon member; you'll need to
register using another provider such as Google.

After selecting your institution in the discovery service, you'll be taken to
your own institution's local sign-in screen. You've probably used it before,
and if it looks familiar that's because it's exactly the same web site.  Sign in
using your campus credentials. When done, you'll return automatically to the
OSG Connect portal and can carry on with signup.

### Orientation Meeting

Once you've applied to join OSG Connect as described above, an OSG Connect support 
team member will contact you to arrange an initial orientation meeting. This meeting 
generally takes about 20-30 minutes and is a chance to talk about your work, how it will 
fit on the OSG, and some practical next steps for getting started. Some of these 
next steps are also listed below. 

### Join a Project

As part of the sign up and meeting process, you'll be asked for information related 
to your research group so that you can be assigned to an accounting project. For 
more information about this process, see this guide: [Start or Join a Project in OSG Connect][projects]

### Generate and Add an SSH key

Once your account is created and you're approved, you can generate and upload an 
SSH key to the OSG Connect website; this key will be duplicated on the OSG Connect 
login server so that you're able to log in there and submit jobs. 

To see how to generate and add an SSH key, please visit this 
page: [Step by step instructions to generate and adding an SSH key][ssh-key]

## Log In

Once you've gone through the steps above, you should be able to log in to the OSG Connect 
login server. See the second half of the SSH key guide for details: 
[How to Log Into the OSG Connect Login Server][ssh-key]

## Overview of access procedure and accounting

For those interested in details, this section describes some of the background 
information behind projects. 

The Open Science Grid governs access to grid resources through an accounting
framework that assigns each user's *jobs* to an *accounting group* or *project*.
As a new user of the OSG, one of the first things to iron out is what
project or projects best describe your work.  This is more a matter of
accountability than of entitlement: it concerns how organizations report to
their sponsors and funding agencies on the utilization of resources placed under
their administration.

To assist in this, OSG Connect uses a group management tool that places users
into one or more groups with names such as *osg.RDCEP* or *osg.Extenci*. 
The *osg* portion of this name differentiates our groups from those of 
other organizations in the same group management facility. The latter portion 
identifies the specific project, each with a Principal Investigator or other 
administrator, that oversees access to resources. Within our web tools, these 
names are often in mixed case, though you may see them uppercased in some 
reporting/accounting software.

The first step in registration is to create a user account and *bind* it to
other identity information. After that you will enroll in a project group.

Once you've enrolled in a group, you'll have the requisite rights to log in to
the submit node for the OSG Connect job scheduler, or to transfer data in and
out of Stash. Submit node logins are typically via Secure Shell (SSH) using a
password or a public key. We'll discuss how to connect further on. Stash access
is possible from the submit node and through Globus transfer or using HTTP to a 
public space within your Stash.

[ssh-key]: 12000065612
[projects]: 12000065615

Commit message:

working through sign-in process

new-docs-jan-2020/registration-and-login.md, after:

[title]: - "Registration and Login for OSG Connect"
[toc]

## Registration and Login for OSG Connect

The major steps to getting started on OSG Connect are: 

* apply for an OSG Connect account
* meet with an OSG Connect staff member for an short consultation and orientation. 
* join and set your default "project"
* upload `.ssh` keys to the OSG Connect website

Each of these is detailed in the guide below. 

Once you've gone through these steps, you should be able to login to the OSG Connect
submit node.  

## Account Creation

### Sign in to or create an account

Start by creating an OSG Connect account. Visit the [OSG Connect web
site](<https://osgconnect.net/>), then click on the **Sign Up** button. You 
will need to agree to our Acceptable Use Policy in order to get to the 
main log in screen. 

The main log in screen will prompt you to sign in via your primary institutional 
affiliation. You'll be directed to a discovery
service which asks you what your home institution is. (If you've used CILogon
before it may already know your home institution and skip this step.) Locate
your institution in the list, or type its name to find matches. 

> If you don't have an institutional identity or can't find your institution 
> on the provided list, either (separately) sign up for a Globus ID and follow 
> the link for that option on this page, or contact the OSG Connect support 
> team for guidance at support@osgconnect.net

Note that this is the identity that will get linked to your OSG Connect account, 
so be sure to pick the institution (if you have multiple affiliations) that 
you would like to associate with your OSG Connect account. 

After selecting your institution in the discovery service, you'll be taken to
your own institution's local sign-in screen. You've probably used it before,
and if it looks familiar that's because it's exactly the same web site.  Sign in
using your campus credentials. When done, you'll return automatically to the
OSG Connect portal and can carry on with signup.

After continuing, and allowing certain permissions in the next screen, you'll be 
asked to create a profile and save changes. If this works successfully, you should 
see that your membership to OSG is "pending" on the right hand side of the screen. 

### Orientation Meeting

Once you've applied to join OSG Connect as described above, an OSG Connect support 
team member will contact you to arrange an initial orientation meeting. This meeting 
generally takes about 20-30 minutes and is a chance to talk about your work, how it will 
fit on the OSG, and some practical next steps for getting started. Some of these 
next steps are also listed below. 

### Join a Project

As part of the sign up and meeting process, you'll be asked for information related 
to your research group so that you can be assigned to an accounting project. For 
more information about this process, see this guide: [Start or Join a Project in OSG Connect][projects]

### Generate and Add an SSH key

Once your account is created and you're approved, you can generate and upload an 
SSH key to the OSG Connect website; this key will be duplicated on the OSG Connect 
login server so that you're able to log in there and submit jobs. 

To see how to generate and add an SSH key, please visit this 
page: [Step by step instructions to generate and adding an SSH key][ssh-key]

## Log In

Once you've gone through the steps above, you should be able to log in to the OSG Connect 
login server. See the second half of the SSH key guide for details: 
[How to Log Into the OSG Connect Login Server][ssh-key]

## Overview of access procedure and accounting

For those interested in details, this section describes some of the background 
information behind projects. 

The Open Science Grid governs access to grid resources through an accounting
framework that assigns each user's *jobs* to an *accounting group* or *project*.
As a new user of the OSG, one of the first things to iron out is what
project or projects best describe your work.  This is more a matter of
accountability than of entitlement: it concerns how organizations report to
their sponsors and funding agencies on the utilization of resources placed under
their administration.

To assist in this, OSG Connect uses a group management tool that places users
into one or more groups with names such as *osg.RDCEP* or *osg.Extenci*. 
The *osg* portion of this name differentiates our groups from those of 
other organizations in the same group management facility. The latter portion 
identifies the specific project, each with a Principal Investigator or other 
administrator, that oversees access to resources. Within our web tools, these 
names are often in mixed case, though you may see them uppercased in some 
reporting/accounting software.

The first step in registration is to create a user account and *bind* it to
other identity information. After that you will enroll in a project group.

Once you've enrolled in a group, you'll have the requisite rights to log in to
the submit node for the OSG Connect job scheduler, or to transfer data in and
out of Stash. Submit node logins are typically via Secure Shell (SSH) using a
password or a public key. We'll discuss how to connect further on. Stash access
is possible from the submit node and through Globus transfer or using HTTP to a 
public space within your Stash.

[ssh-key]: 12000065612
[projects]: 12000065615
