client-install-rp.md, before:

[title]: - "Installing the Connect Client (as a resource provider)"

[TOC]

# Obtaining the Connect Client distribution

The first step in installation is to grab the latest copy of the
client from GitHub:

	$ ssh login.mycluster.edu			 # [your cluster site here]
	$ module load git                    # [if needed]
	$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/CI-Connect/connect-client
	$ cd connect-client

This obtains a copy of the distribution and sets your shell's working
directory to that copy. **The --recursive option is important!**

Typically you'll want to install a release version.

	$ git checkout v0.4

# Installation using environment modules

To install the Connect Client you will need Python 2.x and a C compiler.
**Python 3 is not supported.** At some sites, `module load python`
will load Python 3, so it _might_ be necessary to load Python 2
explicitly. For example:

	$ module load gcc
	$ module load python/2.7.6

Choose a directory to install Connect Client into.  You should
know what directories are used at your site.  For these examples
we'll `/software` as the location of software tools, and
`/software/modulefiles` as the location of module files.
Run `./install.sh` with these two directories:

	$ ./install.sh -site /software/connect-client /software/modulefiles

**Note the `-site` option.**


N.B. Any modules that you have loaded at the time you install Connect
Client will be loaded by the Connect Client modulefile _each time you
load the `connect-client` module_. This ensures that dependencies are
handled internally. To reduce unnecessary module loads, be sure not to
load unnecessary modules before installing.  You may wish to hand-edit
the modulefile to ensure that only true dependencies are listed.  Search
for `module load` in the installed modulefile.


# Without environment modules

If your site does not have environment modules, install the package as
above and, if necessary, modify the $PATH:

	$ export PATH=/software/connect-client/bin:$PATH

You can safely install Connect Client to a common location such as
`/usr` or `/usr/local`.  The installation script will also install
the modulefile (which you won't need) but you can simply remove it.


# Other

We expect to provide an RPM-based installation in the near future.

Commit message:

Add a mention of pip as a pre-installation requirement.

client-install-rp.md, after:

[title]: - "Installing the Connect Client (as a resource provider)"

[TOC]

# Obtaining the Connect Client distribution

The first step in installation is to grab the latest copy of the
client from GitHub:

	$ ssh login.mycluster.edu			 # [your cluster site here]
	$ module load git                    # [if needed]
	$ git clone --recursive https://github.com/CI-Connect/connect-client
	$ cd connect-client

This obtains a copy of the distribution and sets your shell's working
directory to that copy. **The --recursive option is important!**

Typically you'll want to install a release version.

	$ git checkout v0.4

# Installation using environment modules

To install the Connect Client you will need Python 2.x and a C compiler.
**Python 3 is not supported.** At some sites, `module load python`
will load Python 3, so it _might_ be necessary to load Python 2
explicitly. For example:

	$ module load gcc
	$ module load python/2.7.6

You will also need pip, the Python package installation program.  Very
often it is part of the Python installation itself.

Choose a directory to install Connect Client into.  You should
know what directories are used at your site.  For these examples
we'll `/software` as the location of software tools, and
`/software/modulefiles` as the location of module files.
Run `./install.sh` with these two directories:

	$ ./install.sh -site /software/connect-client /software/modulefiles

**Note the `-site` option.**


N.B. Any modules that you have loaded at the time you install Connect
Client will be loaded by the Connect Client modulefile _each time you
load the `connect-client` module_. This ensures that dependencies are
handled internally. To reduce unnecessary module loads, be sure not to
load unnecessary modules before installing.  You may wish to hand-edit
the modulefile to ensure that only true dependencies are listed.  Search
for `module load` in the installed modulefile.


# Without environment modules

If your site does not have environment modules, install the package as
above and, if necessary, modify the $PATH:

	$ export PATH=/software/connect-client/bin:$PATH

You can safely install Connect Client to a common location such as
`/usr` or `/usr/local`.  The installation script will also install
the modulefile (which you won't need) but you can simply remove it.


# Other

We expect to provide an RPM-based installation in the near future.
