training/training/previous-training-events.md, before:

[title]: - "External Training Events"
[TOC]

## Overview

We offer on-site training and tutorials on a periodic basis, usually at conferences (including the annual OSG All Hands Meeting) where many researchers and/or research computing staff are gathered.

## Workshops/Tutorials

  * [Empowering Research Computing at Your Organization Through the OSG (PEARC 21)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q8ylhZ88NkDhQjgbCvCB0Atc9R1w7YRhCZOmD9F2IVc)
  * [Organizing and Submitting HTC Workloads](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h7GXxs6mobNmzDl4_oBh2_Jnie5wYCQ1uj5ParvQ65c)
  * [Empower Research Computing at your Organization Through the OSG (RMACC 2021)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19i79nEOQJDBSfvxuSRF2HXhrFxTbUHJe6AxUyWNKfTw)
  * [dHTC Campus Workshop](https://indico.fnal.gov/event/46925/)
  * [Empowering Research Computing at Your Campus Through the OSG (PEARC 20)](https://opensciencegrid.org/Tutorial-PEARC-2020/)
  * [Deploy jobs on the Open Science Grid (Gateways/eScience 2019)](https://swc-osg-workshop.github.io/OSG-UserTraining-Gateways-2019/)
  * [High Throughput Computation on the Open Science Grid (Internet2 2018 Technology Exchange)](https://meetings.internet2.edu/2018-technology-exchange/program-guide/tutorials-workshops/#OSG)
  * [Open Science Grid Workshop (The Quilt 2018)](https://www.thequilt.net/public-event/osg-pre-workshop-session/)
  * [High Throughput Computation on the Open Science Grid (RMACC 18)](https://rmacc2018hpcsymposium.sched.com/event/EbOT/high-throughput-computation-on-the-open-science-grid)

## Tutorials at Recent OSG All-Hands Meetings

  * [User/Facilitator Training at the OSG All Hands Meeting, University of Oklahoma (OU), March 2020](https://opensciencegrid.org/UserTraining-AHM-2020/)
  * [User Training at the OSG All Hands Meeting, Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility (JLAB), March 2019](https://swc-osg-workshop.github.io/OSG-UserTraining-JLab-2019/)
  * [User Training at the OSG All Hands Meeting, University of Utah, March 2018](https://swc-osg-workshop.github.io/OSG-UserTraining-AHM18/)

Commit message:

adding context for other training

training/training/previous-training-events.md, after:

[title]: - "Other Past Training Events"
[TOC]

## Overview

We offer on-site training and tutorials on a periodic basis, usually at conferences (including the annual OSG All Hands Meeting) where many researchers and/or research computing staff are gathered. Below are some trainings for which the materials were public. (Apologies if any links/materials aren't accessible anymore, as some of these are external to our own web location. Feel free to let us know via support@opensciencegrid.org, in case we can fix/remove them.)

## Workshops/Tutorials

  * [Empowering Research Computing at Your Organization Through the OSG (PEARC 21)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q8ylhZ88NkDhQjgbCvCB0Atc9R1w7YRhCZOmD9F2IVc)
  * [Organizing and Submitting HTC Workloads](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h7GXxs6mobNmzDl4_oBh2_Jnie5wYCQ1uj5ParvQ65c)
  * [Empower Research Computing at your Organization Through the OSG (RMACC 2021)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/19i79nEOQJDBSfvxuSRF2HXhrFxTbUHJe6AxUyWNKfTw)
  * [dHTC Campus Workshop](https://indico.fnal.gov/event/46925/)
  * [Empowering Research Computing at Your Campus Through the OSG (PEARC 20)](https://opensciencegrid.org/Tutorial-PEARC-2020/)
  * [Deploy jobs on the Open Science Grid (Gateways/eScience 2019)](https://swc-osg-workshop.github.io/OSG-UserTraining-Gateways-2019/)
  * [High Throughput Computation on the Open Science Grid (Internet2 2018 Technology Exchange)](https://meetings.internet2.edu/2018-technology-exchange/program-guide/tutorials-workshops/#OSG)
  * [Open Science Grid Workshop (The Quilt 2018)](https://www.thequilt.net/public-event/osg-pre-workshop-session/)
  * [High Throughput Computation on the Open Science Grid (RMACC 18)](https://rmacc2018hpcsymposium.sched.com/event/EbOT/high-throughput-computation-on-the-open-science-grid)

## Tutorials at Recent OSG All-Hands Meetings

The below were offered on-site at OSG All-Hands Meetings. Note that the last on-site AHM in 2020 was canceled due to the pandemic, though we've linked to the materials.

  * [User/Facilitator Training at the OSG All Hands Meeting, University of Oklahoma (OU), March 2020](https://opensciencegrid.org/UserTraining-AHM-2020/)
  * [User Training at the OSG All Hands Meeting, Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility (JLAB), March 2019](https://swc-osg-workshop.github.io/OSG-UserTraining-JLab-2019/)
  * [User Training at the OSG All Hands Meeting, University of Utah, March 2018](https://swc-osg-workshop.github.io/OSG-UserTraining-AHM18/)
