FsurfRemote/ListAndGetOutputs.md, before:

[title]: - "Managing your workflows and output files"
[TOC]
 

##  List Workflows

Run the command below to get a list of workflows that you have submitted and their status:

     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword list 
     Current workflows
     Subject    Workflow             Submit time          Cores          Status
     MRN_3       97                   10:00 01-19-2016     2              PROCESSING

The status of the workflow is `PROCESSING` which means the workflow is not completed yet.  The 
id of the workflow is `97`.  The id is required to get the output of a completed workflow or remove it from 
the list of workflows. 

##  Getting Outputs

Depending on the computer resources available, a workflow will typically require 6-12 hours to complete. 
Once a workflow has completed successfully, the status of the workflow should be `COMPLETED` as below

     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword list
     Current workflows
     Subject    Workflow             Submit time          Cores           Status    
     MRN_3       97                   10:00 01-19-2016     2               COMPLETED   

Run the command below to get the output of the completed workflow by referring its id:
 
     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword output --id 97 

The output files are compressed as a single file `MRN_3_output.tar.bz2` in the current work 
directory. You can extract all the files in the archive using: 

    $ tar -jxvf MRN_3_output.tar.bz2
 
 Similarly, you get the output of any completed  workflow with id `WorkflowID` 
 
     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword output --id WorkflowID  
     $ tar -jxvf <SubjectName>_output.tar.bz2

##  Remove Workflows

Make sure you have downloaded the output of a workflow before you remove it.  Run the following to remove an 
existing workflow:
   
    $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword remove --id WorkflowID 

For example, to remove a running worflow with an id `56`, type

    $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword remove --id 56 
    Workflow removed

This will not effect the files you have downloaded already. 

## Getting Help 
For assistance or questions, please email the OSG User Support team  at [user-support@opensciencegrid.org](mailto:user-support@opensciencegrid.org) or visit the [help desk and community forums](http://support.opensciencegrid.org).

Commit message:

Include information on saved credentials

FsurfRemote/ListAndGetOutputs.md, after:

[title]: - "Managing your workflows and output files"
[TOC]
 
## Saving user credentials
The examples below run the `fsurf` command using the `--user` and `--password` options to give an username and password to the fsurf command.  However, when you do so, fsurf will ask you if you want to save these credentials.  If you say yes to this, then you can omit these options and let fsurf use the saved credentials for future invocations.

##  List Workflows

Run the command below to get a list of workflows that you have submitted and their status:

     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword list 
     Current workflows
     Subject    Workflow             Submit time          Cores          Status
     MRN_3       97                   10:00 01-19-2016     2              PROCESSING

The status of the workflow is `PROCESSING` which means the workflow is not completed yet.  The 
id of the workflow is `97`.  The id is required to get the output of a completed workflow or remove it from 
the list of workflows. 

##  Getting Outputs

Depending on the computer resources available, a workflow will typically require 6-12 hours to complete. 
Once a workflow has completed successfully, the status of the workflow should be `COMPLETED` as below

     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword list
     Current workflows
     Subject    Workflow             Submit time          Cores           Status    
     MRN_3       97                   10:00 01-19-2016     2               COMPLETED   

Run the command below to get the output of the completed workflow by referring its id:
 
     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword output --id 97 

The output files are compressed as a single file `MRN_3_output.tar.bz2` in the current work 
directory. You can extract all the files in the archive using: 

    $ tar -jxvf MRN_3_output.tar.bz2
 
 Similarly, you get the output of any completed  workflow with id `WorkflowID` 
 
     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword output --id WorkflowID  
     $ tar -jxvf <SubjectName>_output.tar.bz2

##  Remove Workflows

Make sure you have downloaded the output of a workflow before you remove it.  Run the following to remove an 
existing workflow:
   
    $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword remove --id WorkflowID 

For example, to remove a running worflow with an id `56`, type

    $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword remove --id 56 
    Workflow removed

This will not effect the files you have downloaded already. 

## Getting Help 
For assistance or questions, please email the OSG User Support team  at [user-support@opensciencegrid.org](mailto:user-support@opensciencegrid.org) or visit the [help desk and community forums](http://support.opensciencegrid.org).
