FsurfRemote/ProcessScan.md, before:

[title]: - "Analysis of a Brain MRI Scan"
[TOC]


## Overview

In this section, we see how to submit a FreeSurfer workflow from your laptop with Fsurf utility. 

**Important note on data privacy**:  In order to protect the privacy of your participants’ scans, we request that you submit only defaced and fully deidentified scans for processing by fsurf.  Images can be anonymized and deidentified before they are uploaded to OSG servers as described in [the article on Anonymizing Images](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000008493-anonymizing-images).

## Get a Sample MRI file

Type the following to get a sample MRI file, 

     curl -L -o MRN_3_defaced.mgz 'http://stash.osgconnect.net/+fsurf/MRN_3_defaced.mgz'

`MRN_3_defaced.mgz` is an MRI file that has already been defaced and anonymized. 


## Performing an Image Reconstruction 

A typical image reconstruction with Freesurfer requires the execution of autorecon1, autorecon2, and 
autorecon3 on MRI data.  All three steps are handled by `Fsurf`. 

Now we do the image reconstruction of  `MRN_3_defaced.mgz` with Fsurf. In the file `MRN_3_defaced.mgz`,  the prefix `MRN_3` is the name of the subject.

     $ ./fsurf  --user myuser --password mypassword submit --subject MRN_3 

`MRN_3_defaced.mgz` image is already deidentified and defaced, so say `y` to the following questions. 

     Has the MRI data been deidentified (This is required) [y/n]? y
     Has the MRI data been defaced (This is recommended) [y/n]? y

After typing `y` to the above two questions, `Fsurf` creates and submits the workflow 

     Creating and submitting workflow
     Workflow 97 submitted for processing

The ID of your workflow is `97`. The ID is needed to check the status, remove and get the output of the workflow. 

##  Listing Workflows

To get the status of workflows, run the following command:

     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword list 
     Current workflows
     Subject    Workflow             Submit time          Cores          Status
     MRN_3       97                   10:00 01-19-2016     2             PROCESSING

The screen output shows that there is just one workflow in the list 
with the subject name `MRN_3`. The status of the workflow is `PROCESSING` (same as running). Two cores are 
being used for this workflow. The ID of the workflow is `97`. 

A unique ID is assigned to each submitted workflow. The ID is useful to get the output or 
remove the workflow from the list. 

## What's Next? 

See how to [get the output files back to the laptop](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/solution/articles/12000008491-managing-your-output-files).

## Getting Help
For assistance or questions, please email the OSG User Support team  at [user-support@opensciencegrid.org](mailto:user-support@opensciencegrid.org) or visit the [help desk and community forums](http://support.opensciencegrid.org).


## Validation Information
A list of linux kernels on OSG  on which the Freesurfer workflows have been validated can be found [here](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000008494-freesurfer-validation-on-the-osg-)

Commit message:

Added information about workflow status

FsurfRemote/ProcessScan.md, after:

[title]: - "Analysis of a Brain MRI Scan"
[TOC]


## Overview

In this section, we see how to submit a FreeSurfer workflow from your laptop with Fsurf utility. 

**Important note on data privacy**:  In order to protect the privacy of your participants’ scans, we request that you submit only defaced and fully deidentified scans for processing by fsurf.  Images can be anonymized and deidentified before they are uploaded to OSG servers as described in [the article on Anonymizing Images](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000008493-anonymizing-images).

## Get a Sample MRI file

Type the following to get a sample MRI file, 

     curl -L -o MRN_3_defaced.mgz 'http://stash.osgconnect.net/+fsurf/MRN_3_defaced.mgz'

`MRN_3_defaced.mgz` is an MRI file that has already been defaced and anonymized. 


## Performing an Image Reconstruction 

A typical image reconstruction with Freesurfer requires the execution of autorecon1, autorecon2, and 
autorecon3 on MRI data.  All three steps are handled by `Fsurf`. 

Now we do the image reconstruction of  `MRN_3_defaced.mgz` with Fsurf. In the file `MRN_3_defaced.mgz`,  the prefix `MRN_3` is the name of the subject.

     $ ./fsurf  --user myuser --password mypassword submit --subject MRN_3 

`MRN_3_defaced.mgz` image is already deidentified and defaced, so say `y` to the following questions. 

     Has the MRI data been deidentified (This is required) [y/n]? y
     Has the MRI data been defaced (This is recommended) [y/n]? y

After typing `y` to the above two questions, `Fsurf` creates and submits the workflow 

     Creating and submitting workflow
     Workflow 97 submitted for processing

The ID of your workflow is `97`. The ID is needed to check the status, remove and get the output of the workflow. 

##  Listing Workflows

To get the status of workflows, run the following command:

     $ ./fsurf --user myuser --password mypassword list 
     Current workflows
     Subject    Workflow             Submit time          Cores          Status
     MRN_3       97                   10:00 01-19-2016     2             PROCESSING

The screen output shows that there is just one workflow in the list 
with the subject name `MRN_3`. The status of the workflow is `PROCESSING` (same as running). Two cores are 
being used for this workflow. The ID of the workflow is `97`. 

A unique ID is assigned to each submitted workflow. The ID is useful to get the output or 
remove the workflow from the list. 

The potential statuses for a workflow are UPLOADED (workflow has been created), PROCESSING (workflow is being run), FAILED (an error occurred while the workflow was running), COMPLETED (workflow has successfully completed), DELETE PENDING (workflow will be deleted soon), DELETED (workflow has been removed), ERROR (an error occurred with the workflow).

## What's Next? 

See how to [get the output files back to the laptop](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/solution/articles/12000008491-managing-your-output-files).

## Getting Help
For assistance or questions, please email the OSG User Support team  at [user-support@opensciencegrid.org](mailto:user-support@opensciencegrid.org) or visit the [help desk and community forums](http://support.opensciencegrid.org).


## Validation Information
A list of linux kernels on OSG  on which the Freesurfer workflows have been validated can be found [here](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000008494-freesurfer-validation-on-the-osg-)
