start/resources/openmpi-jobs.md, before:

[title]: - "OpenMPI Jobs"

[TOC]

Even though the Open Science Pool is a high throughput computing system, sometimes
there is a need to run small OpenMPI based jobs. OSG has limited support for
this, as long as the core count is small (4 is known to work well, 8 and 16 
becomes more difficult due to the limited number of resources).


To get started, first compile your code using the OpenMPI in the modules
system. For example:

    $ module load openmpi
    $ mpicc -o hello hello.c 


You can test the executable locally using `mpiexec`:

    $ mpiexec -n 4 hello
    Hello world from process 1 of 4
    Hello world from process 3 of 4
    Hello world from process 0 of 4
    Hello world from process 2 of 4


To run your code as a job on the Open Science Pool, first create a `wrapper.sh`. Example:

    #!/bin/bash
    
    set -e
    
    module load openmpi
    
    mpiexec -n 4 hello


Then, a job submit file:

    Requirements = OSGVO_OS_STRING == "RHEL 7" && TARGET.Arch == "X86_64" && HAS_MODULES == True 
    request_cpus = 4
    request_memory = 4 GB

    executable = wrapper.sh

    transfer_input_files = hello

    output = job.out.$(Cluster).$(Process)
    error = job.error.$(Cluster).$(Process)
    log = job.log.$(Cluster).$(Process)

    queue 1


Note how the executable is the `wrapper.sh` script, and that the real executable `hello` is
transferred using the `transfer_input_files` mechanism.

Please make sure that the number of cores specified in the submit file via
`request_cpus` match the `-n` argument in the `wrapper.sh` file.

Commit message:

added info about +has_mpi = true

start/resources/openmpi-jobs.md, after:

[title]: - "OpenMPI Jobs"

[TOC]

Even though the Open Science Pool is a high throughput computing system, sometimes
there is a need to run small OpenMPI based jobs. OSG has limited support for
this, as long as the core count is small (4 is known to work well, 8 and 16 
becomes more difficult due to the limited number of resources).


To get started, first compile your code using the OpenMPI in the modules
system. For example:

    $ module load openmpi
    $ mpicc -o hello hello.c 


You can test the executable locally using `mpiexec`:

    $ mpiexec -n 4 hello
    Hello world from process 1 of 4
    Hello world from process 3 of 4
    Hello world from process 0 of 4
    Hello world from process 2 of 4


To run your code as a job on the Open Science Pool, first create a `wrapper.sh`. Example:

    #!/bin/bash
    
    set -e
    
    module load openmpi
    
    mpiexec -n 4 hello


Then, a job submit file:

    Requirements = OSGVO_OS_STRING == "RHEL 7" && TARGET.Arch == "X86_64" && HAS_MODULES == True 
    +has_mpi = true 
    
    request_cpus = 4
    request_memory = 4 GB

    executable = wrapper.sh

    transfer_input_files = hello

    output = job.out.$(Cluster).$(Process)
    error = job.error.$(Cluster).$(Process)
    log = job.log.$(Cluster).$(Process)

    queue 1


Note how the executable is the `wrapper.sh` script, and that the real executable `hello` is
transferred using the `transfer_input_files` mechanism. Additionally, the submit file line `+has_mpi = true` should be added to all MPI jobs so that HTCondor matches these jobs to the correct execute machines. 

Please make sure that the number of cores specified in the submit file via
`request_cpus` match the `-n` argument in the `wrapper.sh` file.
