welcome/overview/is-it-for-you.md, before:

[title]: - "Is the Open Science Grid for You?"


The [Open Science Grid][osg] is a nationally-funded consortium of computing resources 
at more than one hundred institutional partners that, together, offer a strategic 
advantage for computing work that can be run as numerous short tasks. 

For problems that can be run as many independent jobs, as in the first two columns 
of the table below, the OSG provides computing capacity that can transform the types of 
questions that researchers are able to tackle. **Importantly,
many compute tasks that may appear to not be a good fit _can_ be modified in simple ways 
to take advantage, and we'd love to discuss options with you!** 

Learn more and chat with a Research Computing Facilitator by requesting an account here: [OSG Connect Sign-Up][account-request]

|   		| **Ideal jobs!** | **Still very advantageous** | **Maybe not, but get in touch!** | 
|:----------|:--------------|:--------------|:--------------|
| Expected Throughput, per user		|	1000s concurrent cores |	100s concurrent cores |	let's discuss! |
| CPU		|	1			|	< 8			|	> 8 (or MPI)|
| Walltime	| 	< 10 hrs*	|	< 20 hrs*	|	> 20 hrs (not a good fit)	|
| RAM		| 	< few GB	|	< 40 GB	|	> 40 GB	|
| Input		| 	< 500 MB	|	< 10 GB	|	> 10 GB**		|
| Output	| 	< 1GB		|	< 10 GB	|	> 10 GB**		|
| Software	| pre-compiled binaries, containers | Most other than -> | Licensed software, non-Linux |

*or checkpointable
**per job; you can work with a large dataset on OSG if it can be split into pieces

Some examples of work that has been a good fit for the OSG and benefited from 
using its resources include: 

- image analysis (including MRI, GIS, etc.)
- text-based analysis, including DNA read mapping and other bioinformatics
- parameter sweeps
- Monte Carlo methods and other model optimization

Learn more and chat with a Research Computing Facilitator by requesting an account here: [OSG Connect Sign-Up][account-request]

[osg]: https://opensciencegrid.org/
[account-request]: https://osgconnect.net/signup

Commit message:

adding intro to OSG video

welcome/overview/is-it-for-you.md, after:

[title]: - "Is the Open Science Grid for You?"


The [Open Science Grid][osg] is a nationally-funded consortium of computing resources 
at more than one hundred institutional partners that, together, offer a strategic 
advantage for computing work that can be run as numerous short tasks. 

For problems that can be run as many independent jobs, as in the first two columns 
of the table below, the OSG provides computing capacity that can transform the types of 
questions that researchers are able to tackle. **Importantly,
many compute tasks that may appear to not be a good fit _can_ be modified in simple ways 
to take advantage, and we'd love to discuss options with you!** 

Learn more and chat with a Research Computing Facilitator by requesting an account here: [OSG Connect Sign-Up][account-request]

|   		| **Ideal jobs!** | **Still very advantageous** | **Maybe not, but get in touch!** | 
|:----------|:--------------|:--------------|:--------------|
| Expected Throughput, per user		|	1000s concurrent cores |	100s concurrent cores |	let's discuss! |
| CPU		|	1			|	< 8			|	> 8 (or MPI)|
| Walltime	| 	< 10 hrs*	|	< 20 hrs*	|	> 20 hrs (not a good fit)	|
| RAM		| 	< few GB	|	< 40 GB	|	> 40 GB	|
| Input		| 	< 500 MB	|	< 10 GB	|	> 10 GB**		|
| Output	| 	< 1GB		|	< 10 GB	|	> 10 GB**		|
| Software	| pre-compiled binaries, containers | Most other than -> | Licensed software, non-Linux |

*or checkpointable
**per job; you can work with a large dataset on OSG if it can be split into pieces

Some examples of work that has been a good fit for the OSG and benefited from 
using its resources include: 

- image analysis (including MRI, GIS, etc.)
- text-based analysis, including DNA read mapping and other bioinformatics
- parameter sweeps
- Monte Carlo methods and other model optimization

**Watch this video from the 2021 OSG Virtual School** for a detailed introduction to OSG the Distributed High Throughput Computing framework:

[<img src="/images/Intro_OSG_Video_Thumbnail.png" width="500">](https://www.youtube.com/embed/vpJPPjoQ3QU)


Learn more and chat with a Research Computing Facilitator by requesting an account here: [OSG Connect Sign-Up][account-request]

[osg]: https://opensciencegrid.org/
[account-request]: https://osgconnect.net/signup
