archive/overview/welcome.md, before:

[title]: - "A Welcome from the User Support Team"

Greetings from the OSG User Support Team
------------------------------------------------------

On behalf of the OSG User Support team, it is a pleasure to welcome
you to the help desk portal!


The help desk is primarily intended for users, i.e. students, postdocs,
faculty, and staff, doing science using the OSG. We also provide technical
documentation and discussion forums for campus HPC resource providers and
systems administrators. In particular, we support campus-based [cyberinfrastructure
facilitators](<http://aci-ref.org/>), including [options for connecting
university-based HPC centers](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/folders/5000209600>) to
OSG, and [XSede champions](<https://www.xsede.org/campus-champions>) on
all matters relating to OSG, [OSG Connect](<http://osgconnect.net/>), [CI
Connect](<http://ci-connect.net/>), and distributed high throughput computation.


Our extended support team consists of systems experts, computer scientists, and
Ph.D. level scientists experienced in distributed high throughput scientific
computation, data-intensive computing, and wide area networking.  There is very
little we won't be able to handle, or point you to the right expert who can.


We hope that you find our [knowledge
base](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions>) and educational
materials a useful resource. You can [engage with
us](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/signup>) and others in
the [community
forums](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/discussions>). Most
importantly, please [report any
problems](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/tickets/new>) you
encounter, and feel free to send questions or feature requests. If needed our
support team can schedule a consultation with you, your research team or campus
HPC center support staff.  


We look forward to hearing from you!


Warm regards,

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/master/assets/rob-signature.jpg" style="width: 8em;" alt="Rob Gardner">

[Rob Gardner](<https://www.linkedin.com/in/robertwgardner>)  


OSG User Support and Campus Grids Area Coordinator

[@rwg](<https://twitter.com/rwg>)

Commit message:

RESFACIL-62: replaced user support with research facilitation

archive/overview/welcome.md, after:

[title]: - "A Welcome from the Research Facilitation Team"

Greetings from the OSG Research Facilitation Team
------------------------------------------------------

On behalf of the OSG Research Facilitation team, it is a pleasure to welcome
you to the help desk portal!


The help desk is primarily intended for users, i.e. students, postdocs,
faculty, and staff, doing science using the OSG. We also provide technical
documentation and discussion forums for campus HPC resource providers and
systems administrators. In particular, we support campus-based [cyberinfrastructure
facilitators](<http://aci-ref.org/>), including [options for connecting
university-based HPC centers](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/folders/5000209600>) to
OSG, and [XSede champions](<https://www.xsede.org/campus-champions>) on
all matters relating to OSG, [OSG Connect](<http://osgconnect.net/>), [CI
Connect](<http://ci-connect.net/>), and distributed high throughput computation.


Our extended support team consists of systems experts, computer scientists, and
Ph.D. level scientists experienced in distributed high throughput scientific
computation, data-intensive computing, and wide area networking.  There is very
little we won't be able to handle, or point you to the right expert who can.


We hope that you find our [knowledge
base](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions>) and educational
materials a useful resource. You can [engage with
us](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/signup>) and others in
the [community
forums](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/discussions>). Most
importantly, please [report any
problems](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/tickets/new>) you
encounter, and feel free to send questions or feature requests. If needed our
support team can schedule a consultation with you, your research team or campus
HPC center support staff.  


We look forward to hearing from you!


Warm regards,

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/master/assets/rob-signature.jpg" style="width: 8em;" alt="Rob Gardner">

[Rob Gardner](<https://www.linkedin.com/in/robertwgardner>)  


OSG Research Facilitation and Campus Grids Area Coordinator

[@rwg](<https://twitter.com/rwg>)
