start/roadmap.md, before:

[title]: - "Roadmap to HTC Workload Submission via OSG Connect"

[TOC]

# Overview

This guide lays out the steps needed to go from logging in to an OSG 
Connect login node to running a full scale high throughput computing 
(HTC) workload on OSG's [Open Science Pool (OSPool)](https://opensciencegrid.org/about/open_science_pool/). 
The steps listed here apply to any new workload 
submission, whether you are a long-time OSG user or just getting 
started with your first workload, with helpful links to our documentation pages. 

This guide assumes that you have applied for an account on the OSG Connect service and 
have been approved after meeting with an OSG Research Computing Facilitator. 
If you don't yet have an account, you can apply for one at <osgconnect.net>
or [contact us](mailto:support@opensciencegrid.org) with any questions you have. 

# 1. Introduction to the OSPool and OSG Connect

The OSG's Open Science Pool is best-suited for computing work that can be run as many, independent 
tasks, in an approach called "high throughput computing." For more information 
on what kind of work is a good fit for the OSG, 
see [Is the Open Science Pool for You?](5000632058). 

Learn more about the services provided by the OSG that can support your HTC workload: 

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FMAFxROGv0"><img alt="OSG Introduction" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/master/images/osg-intro-video-screenshot.png" width="360" height="204"></a>

<!-- Diagram/cartoon showing how jobs are distributed to multiple sites across the U.S.-->

# 2. Get on OSG Connect

After your OSG account has been approved, go through the following guides to 
complete your access to the login node and to enable your account to submit jobs. 

- [Generate ssh keys and login](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000027675-generate-ssh-keys-and-activate-your-osg-login)
- [Set your default project](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000634360-join-and-use-a-project-in-osg-connect)

# 3. Learn to Submit HTCondor Jobs

Computational work is run on the OSPool by submitting it as “jobs” to the
HTCondor scheduler. Jobs submitted to HTCondor are then scheduled and
run on different resources that are part of the Open Science Pool.
Before submitting your own computational work, it is important to
understand how HTCondor job submission works. The following guides show
how to submit basic HTCondor jobs. The second example allows you to see
where in the OSPool your jobs run. 

- [OSG Connect Quickstart](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000633410-osg-connect-quickstart)
- [Finding OSG Locations](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000061978-finding-osg-locations)

# 4. Test a First Job

After learning about the basics of HTCondor job submission, you will
need to generate your own HTCondor job -- including the software needed
by the job and the appropriate mechanism to handle the data. We
recommend doing this using a single test job. 

## Prepare your software

Software is an integral part of your HTC workflow.  Whether you’ve written it yourself, inherited it from your research group, or use common open-source packages, any required executables and libraries will need to be made available to your jobs if they are to run on the OSPool. 

Read through [this overview of Using Software in OSG Connect](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000634395-using-software-in-osg-connect) to help you determine the best way to provide your software.  We also have the following guides/tutorials for each major software portability approach:

- To **install your own software**, begin with the guide on [Compiling Software for OSG Connect](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000652099) and then complete the [Example Software Compilation tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000074984).
- To **use precompiled binaries**, try the example presented in the [AutoDock Vina tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000634379-running-a-molecule-docking-job-with-autodock-vina) and/or the [Julia tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000078187-using-julia-on-the-osg).
- To **use Docker containers** for your jobs, start with the [Docker and Singularity Containers guide](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000024676), and (optionally) work through the [Tensorflow tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000028940-working-with-tensorflow-gpus-and-containers) (which uses Docker/Singularity)
- To **use Distributed Environment Modules** for your jobs, start with [this Modules guide](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000048518) and then complete the Module example in [this R tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000674219-run-r-scripts-on-osg)

Finally, here are some additional guides specific to some of the most common scripting languages and software tools used on OSG\*\*:

- [Python](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000058785-run-python-scripts-on-osg)
- [R](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000674218-use-external-packages-in-your-r-jobs)
- [Machine Learning](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000028940-working-with-tensorflow-gpus-and-containers)
- [BLAST](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000062020-running-a-blast-workflow)

\*\*This is not a complete list.  Feel free to search for your software in our [Knowledge base](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/). 

## Manage your data

The data for your jobs will need to be transferred to each job that runs in the OSPool, 
and HTCondor has built-in features for getting data to jobs. Our [Data Management Policies](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000002985-data-management-and-policies) guide
discussed the relevant approaches, when to use them, and where to stage data for each.
<!--
- Pick a tutorial?
-->

<!-- TODO: add guides
## Organize your files*
## Troubleshooting*
-->

## Assign the Appropriate Job Duration Category

Jobs running in the OSPool may be interrupted at any time, and will be re-run by HTCondor, unless a single execution of a job exceeds the allowed duration. Jobs expected to take longer than 10 hours will need to identify themselves as 'Long' according to our [Job Duration policies](12000083468). Remember that jobs expected to take longer than 20 hours are not a good fit for the OSPool (see [Is the Open Science Pool for You?](5000632058)) without implementing self-checkpointing (further below).

# 5. Scale Up

After you have a sample job running successfully, you’ll want to scale
up in one or two steps (first run several jobs, before running ALL of them). 
HTCondor has many useful features that make it easy to submit
multiple jobs with the same submit file.  

- [Easily submit multiple jobs](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000073165-easily-submit-multiple-jobs)
- [Scaling up after success with test jobs](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000076552-scaling-up-after-success-with-test-jobs) discusses how to test your jobs for duration, memory and disk usage, and the total amount of space you might need on the 

<!-- TODO: Making jobs resilient* -->

# 6. Special Use Cases

If you think any of the below applies to you, 
please [get in touch](mailto:support@opensciencegrid.org)
and our facilitation team will be happy to discuss your individual case. 

- Run sequential workflows of jobs: [Workflows with HTCondor's DAGMan](12000079038)
- Implement self-checkpointing for long jobs: [HTCondor Checkpointing Guide](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users-manual/self-checkpointing-applications.html)
- Build your own Docker container: [Creating a Docker Container Image](12000058245)
- Submit more than 10,000 jobs at once: [FAQ, search for 'max_idle'](5000634384)
- Larger or speciality resource requests: 
	- GPUs: [GPU Jobs](5000653025)
	- Multiple CPUs: [Multicore Jobs](5000653862)
	- Large Memory: [Large Memory Jobs](5000652304)

# Getting Help 

For assistance or questions, please email the OSG Facilitation team  at <mailto:support@opensciencegrid.org> or visit the [help desk and community forums](http://support.opensciencegrid.org).

Commit message:

Adding get help page to roadmap

start/roadmap.md, after:

[title]: - "Roadmap to HTC Workload Submission via OSG Connect"

[TOC]

# Overview

This guide lays out the steps needed to go from logging in to an OSG 
Connect login node to running a full scale high throughput computing 
(HTC) workload on OSG's [Open Science Pool (OSPool)](https://opensciencegrid.org/about/open_science_pool/). 
The steps listed here apply to any new workload 
submission, whether you are a long-time OSG user or just getting 
started with your first workload, with helpful links to our documentation pages. 

This guide assumes that you have applied for an account on the OSG Connect service and 
have been approved after meeting with an OSG Research Computing Facilitator. 
If you don't yet have an account, you can apply for one at <osgconnect.net>
or [contact us](mailto:support@opensciencegrid.org) with any questions you have. 

# 1. Introduction to the OSPool and OSG Connect

The OSG's Open Science Pool is best-suited for computing work that can be run as many, independent 
tasks, in an approach called "high throughput computing." For more information 
on what kind of work is a good fit for the OSG, 
see [Is the Open Science Pool for You?](5000632058). 

Learn more about the services provided by the OSG that can support your HTC workload: 

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5FMAFxROGv0"><img alt="OSG Introduction" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/master/images/osg-intro-video-screenshot.png" width="360" height="204"></a>

<!-- Diagram/cartoon showing how jobs are distributed to multiple sites across the U.S.-->

# 2. Get on OSG Connect

After your OSG account has been approved, go through the following guides to 
complete your access to the login node and to enable your account to submit jobs. 

- [Generate ssh keys and login](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000027675-generate-ssh-keys-and-activate-your-osg-login)
- [Set your default project](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000634360-join-and-use-a-project-in-osg-connect)

# 3. Learn to Submit HTCondor Jobs

Computational work is run on the OSPool by submitting it as “jobs” to the
HTCondor scheduler. Jobs submitted to HTCondor are then scheduled and
run on different resources that are part of the Open Science Pool.
Before submitting your own computational work, it is important to
understand how HTCondor job submission works. The following guides show
how to submit basic HTCondor jobs. The second example allows you to see
where in the OSPool your jobs run. 

- [OSG Connect Quickstart](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000633410-osg-connect-quickstart)
- [Finding OSG Locations](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000061978-finding-osg-locations)

# 4. Test a First Job

After learning about the basics of HTCondor job submission, you will
need to generate your own HTCondor job -- including the software needed
by the job and the appropriate mechanism to handle the data. We
recommend doing this using a single test job. 

## Prepare your software

Software is an integral part of your HTC workflow.  Whether you’ve written it yourself, inherited it from your research group, or use common open-source packages, any required executables and libraries will need to be made available to your jobs if they are to run on the OSPool. 

Read through [this overview of Using Software in OSG Connect](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000634395-using-software-in-osg-connect) to help you determine the best way to provide your software.  We also have the following guides/tutorials for each major software portability approach:

- To **install your own software**, begin with the guide on [Compiling Software for OSG Connect](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000652099) and then complete the [Example Software Compilation tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000074984).
- To **use precompiled binaries**, try the example presented in the [AutoDock Vina tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000634379-running-a-molecule-docking-job-with-autodock-vina) and/or the [Julia tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000078187-using-julia-on-the-osg).
- To **use Docker containers** for your jobs, start with the [Docker and Singularity Containers guide](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000024676), and (optionally) work through the [Tensorflow tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000028940-working-with-tensorflow-gpus-and-containers) (which uses Docker/Singularity)
- To **use Distributed Environment Modules** for your jobs, start with [this Modules guide](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000048518) and then complete the Module example in [this R tutorial](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000674219-run-r-scripts-on-osg)

Finally, here are some additional guides specific to some of the most common scripting languages and software tools used on OSG\*\*:

- [Python](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000058785-run-python-scripts-on-osg)
- [R](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/5000674218-use-external-packages-in-your-r-jobs)
- [Machine Learning](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000028940-working-with-tensorflow-gpus-and-containers)
- [BLAST](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000062020-running-a-blast-workflow)

\*\*This is not a complete list.  Feel free to search for your software in our [Knowledge base](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/). 

## Manage your data

The data for your jobs will need to be transferred to each job that runs in the OSPool, 
and HTCondor has built-in features for getting data to jobs. Our [Data Management Policies](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000002985-data-management-and-policies) guide
discussed the relevant approaches, when to use them, and where to stage data for each.
<!--
- Pick a tutorial?
-->

<!-- TODO: add guides
## Organize your files*
## Troubleshooting*
-->

## Assign the Appropriate Job Duration Category

Jobs running in the OSPool may be interrupted at any time, and will be re-run by HTCondor, unless a single execution of a job exceeds the allowed duration. Jobs expected to take longer than 10 hours will need to identify themselves as 'Long' according to our [Job Duration policies](12000083468). Remember that jobs expected to take longer than 20 hours are not a good fit for the OSPool (see [Is the Open Science Pool for You?](5000632058)) without implementing self-checkpointing (further below).

# 5. Scale Up

After you have a sample job running successfully, you’ll want to scale
up in one or two steps (first run several jobs, before running ALL of them). 
HTCondor has many useful features that make it easy to submit
multiple jobs with the same submit file.  

- [Easily submit multiple jobs](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000073165-easily-submit-multiple-jobs)
- [Scaling up after success with test jobs](https://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/articles/12000076552-scaling-up-after-success-with-test-jobs) discusses how to test your jobs for duration, memory and disk usage, and the total amount of space you might need on the 

<!-- TODO: Making jobs resilient* -->

# 6. Special Use Cases

If you think any of the below applies to you, 
please [get in touch](mailto:support@opensciencegrid.org)
and our facilitation team will be happy to discuss your individual case. 

- Run sequential workflows of jobs: [Workflows with HTCondor's DAGMan](12000079038)
- Implement self-checkpointing for long jobs: [HTCondor Checkpointing Guide](https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/users-manual/self-checkpointing-applications.html)
- Build your own Docker container: [Creating a Docker Container Image](12000058245)
- Submit more than 10,000 jobs at once: [FAQ, search for 'max_idle'](5000634384)
- Larger or speciality resource requests: 
	- GPUs: [GPU Jobs](5000653025)
	- Multiple CPUs: [Multicore Jobs](5000653862)
	- Large Memory: [Large Memory Jobs](5000652304)

# Getting Help 

See our [Get Help page](12000084585) for all the different ways you can reach the OSG Facilitation team. Our goal is 
to enable you to scale up your computing, so we want to hear from you if you have any questions about using OSG Connect.
